feat: blog: Create a custom rule to disallow underscores (#330)
eslint/eslint.org: src/content/drafts/custom-rule-disallow-underscores.md

---
layout: post
title: Create a custom rule to disallow underscores

> teaser: "This blog post explains how to create an ESLint custom rule, which disallows underscores."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
teaser: "This blog post explains how to create an ESLint custom rule that disallows underscores in variable names."
```

tags:
  - Custom Rules
authors:
  - KICKdesigns
categories:
  - Tutorials
---

> This blog post describes how to create a custom rule that disallows using an underscore when declaring a variable name. For example, `my-variable` or `myvariable` is be valid, but `my_variable` is disallowed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This blog post describes how to create a custom rule that disallows using an underscore when declaring a variable name. For example, `my-variable` or `myvariable` is valid, but `my_variable` is disallowed.
```

To create a custom rule you'll need to:

1. Ensure you complete the [Prerequisites](#prerequisites).

> 2. [Create the Plugin](#create-the-plugin).

Reviewer: I think these last two steps are in the opposite order of what people would expect. Can we rearrange so that creating the custom rule is first and then we can show how to add it to a plugin?

3. [Create the Custom Rule](#Create-the-custom-rule).

## Prerequisites

Ensure you complete the following before you proceed:

- Install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/).

> - Install [yarn](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install).

Reviewer: Yarn should be uppercase throughout (per the project's own usage on yarnpkg.com)

- Install and configure ESLint. See [Getting Started with ESlint](https://eslint.org/docs/latest/user-guide/getting-started) for more information.

> **Note:** This walkthrough uses a JavaScript ESLint configuration file and yarn.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** This post uses a JavaScript ESLint configuration file and Yarn.
```

 * `eslint-plugin-pluginname` (e.g. `eslint-plugin-test`)
 * `@pluginscope/eslint-plugin-pluginname` (e.g. `@testscope/eslint-plugin-test`)
 * `@pluginscope/eslint-plugin` (e.g. `@testscope/eslint-plugin`)

This walkthrough will show how to create a plugin using the first format.

**Note:** You can use a [generator](https://www.npmjs.com/package/generator-eslint) if you don't want to create the plugin manually.

To create a plugin:

1. Create a plugin folder inside your project folder called `eslint-plugin-test`.
2. In your plugin folder, create `package.json` file with the following:

  ```
  {
    "name": "eslint-plugin-test",
    "version": "1.0.0",
    "main": "index.js"
  }
  ```

2. In your plugin folder, create `index.js` files with the following:

  ```
  module.exports = {
       rules: {}
  };
  ```

  This file will contain all the plugin rules.

Now that the plugin is created, proceed to [Create the Custom Rule](#Create-the-custom-rule).

## Create the Custom Rule

Follow the steps below to create the custom rule to disallow the use of underscores when declaring a variable name:

1. Add the custom rule `no-underscores-in-variables` to the `index.js` file:

>   ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  ```js
```

  module.exports = {
    rules: {
      "no-underscores-in-variables": {
          create: function(context) {
              return {
                CatchClause(node) {
                    if (node.id.name.includes("_")) {
                        context.report(node, 'Variable names must not contain underscores');
                    }
                }
              };
          }
      }
    }
  };
  ```

2. In the project root, add the plugin as a dependency using `yarn`:

>   ```yarn add --dev file:./eslint-plugin-test```

Reviewer: Looks like some formatting issues here. The three backticks should be on lines all by themselves.

---
layout: post
title: Create a custom rule to disallow underscores
teaser: "This blog post explains how to create an ESLint custom rule that disallows underscores in variable names."
tags:
  - Custom Rules
authors:
  - KICKdesigns
categories:
  - Tutorials
---

> This blog post describes how to create a custom ESLint rule that disallows using an underscore when declaring a variable name. For example, `my-variable` or `myvariable` is valid, but `my_variable` is disallowed.

Reviewer: JavaScript doesn't allow dash-case.
```suggestion
This blog post describes how to create a custom ESLint rule that disallows using an underscore when declaring a variable name. For example, `myVariable` or `myvariable` is valid, but `my_variable` is disallowed.
```

These are the steps we'll cover:

* [Writing the Rule](#writing-the-rule)
* [Testing the Rule](#testing-the-rule)
* [Distributing the Rule in a Plugin](#distributing-the-rule-in-a-plugin)
* [Referencing the Rule in your ESLint Configuration](#referencing-the-rule-in-your-eslint-configuration)

## Designing the Rule

Before you write any code, it's important to think about what problem you're trying to solve. 

> For our example, we want to ensure that variable names adhere to a specific format that disallows underscores. Therefore, when we design the rule, we want to first detect the presence of an underscore in the variable name, then trigger a message if one is found.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For our example, we want to ensure that variable names adhere to a specific format that disallows underscores. Therefore, when we design the rule, we want to first detect the presence of an underscore in the variable name and then trigger a message if one is found.
```

> Before you write a rule, always check to see if someone else has already solved your problem. Below are links to help you find existing rules and configs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you write a rule, always check to see if someone else has already solved your problem. Here are some links to help you find existing rules:
```

* [Official ESLint rules](https://eslint.org/docs/rules/)
* [awesome-eslint](https://github.com/dustinspecker/awesome-eslint) – A collection of ESLint presets, configs, plugins, and rules.

> For the purpose of this post, we'll assume that no one else has created this rule and create a new custom rule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the purpose of this post, we'll assume that no one else has already created this rule.
```
